hi everybody I'm John graden from the
martial arts teacher's association and
johngraden.com
this is the back leg side kick I love
the kick two ways to do it one form
traditional we're going to lock it out
show the lines demonstrate our technique
that's what traditional karate is it's a
demonstration of ancient techniques they
do them as accurately as possible to
honor the arts and I love that the other
way to throw it is more practical in a
fighting scenario where we're not going
to hold it out we're gonna fire and
recover so here's what it looks like
when I throw it back to a psychic gonna
come right at you with it so get ready
I'm gonna bring the knee right under my
body and once it comes across this foot
has to pivot hard and FAR's ideally it's
gonna go 180 what does that mean toes
are pointing forward now the heel faces
you that's a 180 pivot goes all the way
around does it have to be 180 160 170 is
fine but shoot for 180 so what I'm doing
now is I'm gonna bring the knee across
my body and then thrust it straight into
you as a back leg side kick I'm hitting
with the heel most beginners rather than
bringing it across and kicking straight
out they will not get it across aim the
shin and end up throwing a sloppy
roundhouse kick you know better to do
that so I'm gonna bring the knee across
thrust it out and then we get right back
to me straight out and straight back
watch again shoulders are relaxed the
shoulders who can come all the way
through back leg side kick as this leg
is coming through I want to take this
form and lead with it because I don't
want to get hit in the stomach with his
side kick on the way in see this is a
big move that could be a really wide
open target so as I doing this technique
I'm protecting against a potential
counter-attack by keeping my elbow in
the center so from here straight through
mmm back leg side kick
great technique strikes with the heel
that's back leg psychic I'm John graden
thank you